Intro 

If we can convice people there walking straigh when really there walking in a bend we could use a smaller space.

But could also be use for rehabilitation.















Aim & Objectives

Aims and objectives needs to be measurable





Cant evidence how VR can influence motor responses or the sensory 

Whether a users perception of our motion or movement can be deceived by virtual reality.

Perception of motions be perceived.
















Aim:
To investigate the extent to which a users perception of motion can be deceived within virtual reality.


Objectives:

Understand how perception can influence a human’s motion.
- This research will be a crucial asset when constructing a system and scenario that targets the primary aim. Information will be discovered through research of academic journals and books relating to VR and cognitive science.

Design a scenario, which forces a participant to rely on a sensory system to achieve a given goal.
- A scenario presents a task and prompts the user's to achieve a goal. A given task will to be very simple, i.e. walking in a straight line towards a point. Simple tasks will enable a clear and concise way to gather evaluative data. The scenario will be displayed within a virtual environment; therefore technological possibilities and limitations have to be considered. 

Design a VR system which approprialty meets the needs of the scenario design.
- The system design will incorporate all requirements from the scenario.
- Hardware and software requirements will be considered in order to outline realistic capabilites of the system.

Develop a VR system which accuratly follows its design scematic and appropiatly presents the scenario.
- The system will adhere to the design schematic using the Unity 5 Game engine to create the virtual environment. A HTC Vive will be utilised to display the scenario and track the user within a virtual plane.

Construct one or a set of experiments, which utilise the system to gather participant results.
- A given experiment will evaluate the performance of a user using the VR system.

Evaluate future applications of the VR system or later evolutions of the developed technology.





































GANT
























What takes over when one of our sensors is shut off?
















Devleopment of the VR System




Develop a scenario to test.
Construct a set of experiments.
Build VR System.




















To discover the extent to which Virtual Reality can deceive a users perception of trajectory and motion?
To focused.

Aim: Discover the 


Investigating the use of VR for deception or infulencing sensor motor inputs.

Can you make someone walk in a circle without them realising they are walking in a circle.

Whether VR can be used to alter perceptions.

Why trajectory and motion.

Sensory motor changes and influences?











Evaluation of participant



































