

Theme 


In essense, sensory illusion via VR best describes the main theme of this dissertation. In researching academic
literature, sensory illusion in VR can be facilitated in many ways.

Redirrection is a sub-theme which kept on occuring when reading literature. The main point of redirection
in VR is to alter contininuity between virtual and real world rotation. This addresses to navigational
restiction within VR, where a user wishes to walk a around a virtual plane which is larger then the real plane.






Sub theme

Redirection.


Author
Steinlick - Estimation

Aim of paper
- To discover the amount of deviation which is tolerable between vision and proprioception while the user is moving.
- Similar to the theme of illusion, users had to disciminiate between real world and virtual motion.


Type of study
Questionaire
- They had to state whether physical movement was greater than the virtual counterpart or not.



Key findings

Rotation

Users can be turned physically about 49 percent more or 20 percent less than the perceived virtual rotation
without noticing a difference. 

Users are more sensitive to scence motion if the scene moves against head rotataion than if the scence moves
with ther head rotation.


Walking
Walking distances can be downscaled by 14 percent and upscaled by 26 percent when they are mapped to virtual
motions.



Pros of this research
Already shows that users can be illuded but this is already apartent, the good thing about this research,
is th fact that it shows tested thresholds, which can be applied to this project.


Cons
Does not attempt to test if objects close or far from the camera alter results. 
Amount of manipulation that goes unoticed is limited.





Author
Stefania Serafin - Estmation of detection thresholds for acoustc based redirected walking techniques.



Author
- Stefania Serafin - Estimation audio.


Aim of paper
- Understand the detection threshold for auditory based redirected walking techniues.
- Two experiments one based on audio, the user turns until they hear an alarm clock in thier direction.
- Ther other, curvature along a path.


Key findings
- Vision is more likely to dominate proprioception and vestibular cues compared to audio.  


Pros
- Brings the idea of incororating 3D audio into the project.


Cons 
- Uses audio alone in the experiment, not audio with visual stimuli




Sub theme of Motion

Author 
Anatole Lecuyer


Aim of paper
- The paper broadly looks into different ways VR can illude the senses.
- Looks at combining haptic feedback with vistual stimuli.
- Their research suggests that vection (feeling of moving, via other objects moving around you) 
  can be improved with haptic feedback.

- They used a devie called a HapSeat which applies haptic feedback to certain areas to create a sensation
  of self motion.


Type of study




key findings



pros
- Shows how haptic feedback can be used to increase sensation of motion, this may be handy for the experiments


cons
- Still requires aditional hardware to create the experience.






Author
Gerd Bruder , Frank Steinickle


Aim of paper
- To see is visual ilusions can alter a user's perception of distance

Key findings
- Users tend to understimate distances traveled in VR and reuslts show that visual illusions can
  compensate for the inacurate estimations.



pros
- 


cons
- Could distract a user from the virtual world.





















